welcome back to movie recaps today i
will show you a thriller
sci-fi film from 2014 titled ex machina
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
a programmer at an internet company
caleb smith wins a contest
this allows him the chance to spend a
week at the luxurious and private estate
of nathan bateman
his company's ceo the estate is
extremely isolated in the mountains
where caleb is airlifted and then left
to travel the rest of the way by foot
through the woods
when caleb arrives to the house he is
given a personal key card at the
security gate
caleb makes his way through the first
floor of the house until he finally
finds nathan outside exercising
nathan is a charismatic individual who
tries to make small talk with caleb as
they meet for the first time
as nathan shows caleb the estate he
learns it is not a house
but a research facility nathan is eager
to share what he is researching at his
estate
however caleb first must sign the blue
book non-disclosure agreement
at first caleb is reluctant to sign
because of the outlandish requests he is
expected to follow
with a bit of persuading nathan
successfully gets caleb to sign the
agreement
after caleb signs the agreement nathan
asks caleb if he knows what the turing
test is
caleb's understanding is that when if a
human doesn't know they are interacting
with a computer
the computer has passed the test and has
artificial intelligence
ai nathan then informs caleb that he
will be the human component in a touring
test to determine if the ai
ava nathan created can pass the test or
not
caleb is captivated by this project and
states that if it passes it will be the
history of gods
before the first session begins caleb
examines the area outside of the room
that ava is kept
he notices a crack in the reinforced
glass wall barrier that separates him
from ava
it seemed that ava was trying to escape
from her room
caleb looks up and sees ava walk into
his line of vision
she has the face and hands designed as a
woman's but has the body of a machine
ava greets caleb and tells him she has
never met anyone before
only nathan she asks him if he's met
lots of new people and he replies
none like you he diverts the
conversation and lets her know that they
must break the ice
he asks her if she knows this meaning
and she acknowledges that she
understands it is meant to overcome any
social awkwardness
ava informs him of her age and that she
is one however she does not specify in
years or months
just one caleb then asks her when she
learned how to speak
and she states that she always knew how
to speak they discuss why this is
unusual or not since ava believes
language is something that people
acquire
caleb counters that it may be that
language exists from birth and what is
learned is how to form language into
conversations
with that their first session is
complete caleb is fascinated by his
encounter and is talking to nathan about
the session while drinking a beer
together
he tells nathan that talking to ava was
like through the looking glass
instead of conversing more about what
caleb meant nathan only compliments
caleb by saying that he is quotable and
good with words
caleb tries to refute this saying it was
a quote by someone else
but nathan interrupts him to change the
topic about himself
nathan reflects back to when caleb said
nathan wasn't a man but god if he
invented a machine with consciousness
once again
caleb tries to interject with
frustration that he didn't say that
exactly
but nathan talks over him nathan
continues to talk about how if the test
passes
caleb had acknowledged that he is a god
caleb once again tries to interject but
nathan completely ignores him
caleb then voices his concern about the
way the test is set up
from his understanding humans are not
supposed to see the robot
nathan says they are past that point
since if caleb didn't see ava he would
believe she was a human
the real test is to show that ava is a
robot but to see if caleb believes she
is consciousness
caleb agrees with his point of view
later that night
caleb is unable to fall asleep so he
decides to watch what ava is doing
through the monitoring system in his
room
as he watches her the power is cut and
caleb can't get out of his room until
the main generator is restored
the power is returned almost instantly
and caleb leaves his room
while walking down the hall he notices a
wall aligned with face replicas
he enters a room with a painting by
jackson pollock known as felt
caleb finds a phone and attempts to use
it when he is startled by nathan who was
laying on a couch drinking a beer
nathan says he can't use the phone
because of the protocols with ava
caleb says there was a power cut in his
room and he couldn't get out
nathan does not take in caleb's concern
and only says they've been getting those
recently but that he's working on the
issue
uneasy about this short conversation
caleb goes back to his room
the next morning a woman walks in
caleb's room unannounced
she leaves him a plate of coffee without
saying anything to him attempting not to
make eye contact with him
caleb makes his way outside where nathan
is lifting weights
he apologizes for sending the woman
hyoko in his room
but he didn't want caleb to oversleep
they discuss the next session
caleb starts the next session with ava
where she shows him pictures she's drawn
she's frustrated since she draws every
day but she doesn't know what the
drawings are
she then changes the conversation and
asks caleb if he wants to be her friend
however she tells him how she notices
that their conversations are one-sided
since he wants to know everything about
her
yet she doesn't know anything about him
he goes on to talk about himself such as
his personal life
while she walks around looking at him
and furthering the conversation
she only stops walking and looks him in
the eye when he accounts how his family
had died in a car crash
he goes into detail that he was in the
car when it happened and was kept in a
hospital for a long time ava has a look
of sorrow and there is remorse in her
voice when she tells him she's sorry
that happened to him
he says it's fine and that soon after he
got into coding and became advanced in
that field
ava's face changes from sorry to neutral
and compares him to nathan
caleb agrees then instantly exclaims
that he's different from nathan since
nathan has accomplished so much more in
the coding field
ava asks if caleb likes nathan which he
says he does
ava also wants to know if he is friends
with caleb which caleb replies that he
believes so
she goes further into the question as to
whether nathan is a good friend to caleb
caleb is unsure how to answer this and
stammers as he tries to find the right
answer
all of a sudden the power cuts out ava
takes advantage of nathan not being able
to hear or see the
conversation and whispers to caleb that
he shouldn't trust nathan
before caleb can ask ava what she meant
the power is turned back on
ava immediately starts to talk about
books so that nathan is not suspicious
about what may have been spoken about
when the power was out
it takes a moment for caleb to snap out
of what happened but he goes on ahead
and agrees to what ava was saying about
books
at dinner caleb learns that kyoko
doesn't know any english
nathan says it's another security
measure since she won't understand the
projects he works on
nathan turns to the subject of the power
cuts he's been facing
caleb asks why nathan doesn't have the
technicians come back to fix the
generator
nathan says it's too difficult to get
people to come fix it because of all the
security measures and that after the
last job he had all those men killed
caleb looks up at nathan with a look of
concern waiting for the punchline
nathan only weakly smiles nathan then
asks how the session when and caleb
gives his account
nathan wants to know what was said
during the power outage
caleb nervously continues to eat his
dinner and tells him that ava didn't say
anything
nathan is surprised but doesn't push
forward
in the next session ava talks to caleb
about never being outside the room she's
kept in
he asks her where she would want to go
and she explained she would like to go
to a traffic intersection so she can
view many humans
caleb tells her this is called people
watching and she likes this idea saying
that they could go together
caleb smiles and tells her it will be
date she is happy with this answer and
tells caleb to close his eyes
she walks to her closet and puts on a
dress sweater and wig
when she is dressed she walks back to
caleb to show him her new look
he says she looks nice ava is pleased
with this answer and says that is what
she would wear on their date
caleb is confused to what ava had said
and done the previous session
he asked nathan why he would give an ai
a sexuality and that they don't need a
gender
nathan explains that it is only nature
for gender and sexuality to exist
caleb still does not understand nathan's
reasoning continues to argue with nathan
about the subject
caleb accuses nathan of programming ava
to be attracted to him
irritated nathan tells caleb to follow
him to another room
when they enter the room nathan walks up
to a large abstract painting displayed
on the wall
nathan describes the methods of the
famous painter jackson pollock
at the end of his rant he asks caleb
what would have happened if he didn't
stick to his methods
caleb replies that pollock would have
never had a painting nathan excitedly
agrees with him and compares the
painters methods to the test
that if the painter thought of every
step and process he would not have been
successful
nathan calms down and tells kayla that
he didn't program ava to be attracted to
him and that she is not pretending to
like him
in the fourth session caleb recalls an
experiment he had to take in his ai
course at college called mary in the
black and white room
he describes a scientist who specialized
in colors but had never seen color
because she lived in a black and white
room
she was born there and was always alone
when the scientists stepped outside for
the first time
she had finally learned what colors felt
like as caleb tells the story
ava connects with a scientist and
imagines herself alone in a black
and white world after finishing the
story caleb tells eva that mary in the
black and white room is a machine
the human is when she walks out avo only
stares at caleb unmoved and serious
caleb then tells ava that he was brought
there to test her
he asks her if she knew which she
replies that she didn't but that she is
sad about that information
the power is cut and caleb takes
advantage of the situation asking ava
why she told him not to trust nathan
she answers that nathan lies about
everything caleb is still confused as to
why there are so many power cuts and
believes that nathan is orchestrating it
however ava tells him that she is the
one causing the power cuts since she can
reverse the power flow when charging
herself
caleb starts to understand that he
didn't win the lottery to go to the
estate by chance but was instead chosen
caleb confronts nathan about this on a
hike near a waterfall
nathan says he chose caleb because he
knew he would ask all the right
questions
kyoku is standing in the room with the
jackson pollock painting staring at it
caleb walks in and tries to get her
attention he walks up to her and puts
his hands on her shoulders and faces her
asking where nathan is she doesn't seem
to understand and stares at caleb
he continues to ask for nathan when
kyoko starts to unbutton her blouse
continuously staring at caleb bewildered
caleb tells her to stop yet kyoko does
not listen
nathan walks in casually and reminds
caleb is wasting his time talking to her
but he wouldn't waste his time dancing
with her the room is lit red
music starts to play and kyoko starts to
dance
nathan joins her in a choreographed
dance as caleb looks at them like
they're crazy
during the next session ava asks caleb a
series of questions
at first everything seems fine until she
asks caleb what will happen to her if
she fails the test
he does not have a direct answer in the
power cuts out as the power is out ava
asks caleb if he wants to be with her
she doesn't give him a chance to answer
and says that she wants to be with him
outside caleb and nathan are having a
few drinks and discussing ava when caleb
learns that nathan is going to create
another model after ava
nathan describes the process where he
will download her mind and unpack the
data
he will also wipe out her memories and
keep the same body
caleb realizes this process will
essentially destroy ava
they return inside the facility where
nathan lies on the couch and continues
to drink
caleb watches him from across the room
when nathan passes out from his
drunkenness
caleb takes nathan's key card and goes
to nathan's computer
he pulls up the old video footage from
when nathan had created the other ai
models before ava
the footage shows nathan with various
female robots
the last robot is shown yelling at
nathan asking him why she's in there
she pounds on the door with her hands
continuously until her arms have
completely fallen off
caleb is appalled by what he sees kyoko
is lying down on a bed undressed when
caleb walks into the room
he goes to the closets and opens each
one revealing the other ai models
nathan wakes up and realizes caleb left
the room
kyoko understands that caleb knows the
truth and peels back layers of her
artificial skin
revealing that she's also a robot nathan
stumbles through the house
attempting to make his way to his
bedroom when trying to open a door
he can't find his key card and thinks he
lost it as he drops to the floor
the electrical door opens and caleb
steps out nathan tells him he lost his
key
caleb kneels next to nathan with the key
card in hand and tells him he dropped
the key
since nathan is extremely drunk he is
fooled by this trick
caleb cannot sleep that night after he
recounts the previous events
the image of kyoko plays over in his
mind he goes into the bathroom and walks
to the mirror
he feels his skin and looks over his
face he grabs his shave razor and pulls
one of the blades out
he turns the blade to his wrist and cuts
himself leaving a deep gash
he then examines the inside of the gash
making sure he is indeed a human and not
an ai
caleb is completely unmoved by the
situation and goes on to smear his blood
all over the mirror and stares at the
mirror
the truth of the ai has left him
confused as to what was real and what
was machine as he stares at the mirror
rage fills him until he punches the
mirror
the mirror was another camera kyoko was
on the other side of the screen
watching what caleb had done to himself
as caleb learns the dark truth about
nathan's use of ais
at the next session he hints at ava to
turn off the power
ava turns off the power and listens to
caleb about nathan's plans to
practically kill ava when he reprograms
her
ava is scared and wants his help to get
her out he tells her that they'll wait
until the nathan is drunk and blacks out
then caleb will take nathan's key card
and reprogram the security protocols
he will change it so the doors will not
remain locked during the power cut but
will open
ava needs to trigger a power failure at
10 pm and she agrees to do this
the next morning nathan walks into the
kitchen and greets caleb
he reminds caleb that it's his last day
and the helicopter is scheduled to pick
him the next morning
nathan says he enjoyed having caleb at
his estate caleb cheerfully thanks him
for his hospitality
he walks to the fridge and pulls out a
bottle to pour nathan a drink
he tries to hand the drink to nathan to
celebrate his stay but nathan refuses
the drink
confused that nathan doesn't want the
drink he tries to offer him a beer but
nathan still refuses
nathan has been drinking too much and
wants to go on a detox
caleb is defeated and drinks by himself
nathan switches the conversation about
ava
wondering if she passed the test caleb
quietly agrees that ava had passed
nathan is pleased about this answer then
goes back to an older conversation they
had as to whether ava was pretending to
like kayla
nathan points out that ava probably
pretended to like caleb because she saw
him as a means of escape
he tells caleb to follow him out of the
kitchen to show him something
kyoko walks up to ava's room ava asks
who she is
kyoko says nothing they stand in silence
nathan is showing caleb footage on his
personal computer
he reveals that he had a battery powered
camera in ava's room
nathan has been able to see and hear
everything that has been said between
ava
and caleb during the power outages
nathan does not seem angry
he explains that caleb was the real test
not ava
he gave her caleb as her hope of
escaping she was expected to use her
charm and emotions to manipulate caleb
into helping her
caleb is angry and avoids eye contact
with nathan he understands that nathan
didn't choose him because he's good at
coding
he was chosen based off his search
engine that showed his interests
that he had no girlfriend and that he
was a morally good
nathan sits next to caleb and says that
the test did indeed pass
at that moment the power cuts out and
nathan asks caleb exactly how he thought
the escape plan was going to work he
laughs at the plan
believing he caught caleb however caleb
uncovers to nathan that he figured he
had been watching them
caleb got him drunk the day before and
reprogrammed everything
the power turns back on and nathan is
anxious
he stands up and walks back to his
monitor to check on ava
ava has left her room as ava walks out
of her room
she walks past the same wall of face
replicas caleb had passed
she examines one of the faces comparing
it to her own
kyoku steps out into the hall and ava
faces her nathan is watching as all of
this happens from his monitor
angered nathan turns and punches caleb
knocking him out
he grabs a dumbbell weight staring at
the monitor taken over by fury
ava and kyoko are standing face to face
ava leans over and whispers something to
her
but it is inaudible ava holds kyoko's
hand while kyoko holds a knife in her
other hand
the women look at each other with
understanding at that moment
nathan steps into the hallway both women
look at him but say nothing
he orders ava back to her room she asks
if he'll ever let her out of the room
nathan lies saying that he will ava
knows that he is lying and starts to
walk towards him
he orders her to stop she ignores him
and starts to run towards nathan
he's scared as he continues to yell at
her to stop she charges straight towards
him
she knocks him down to the ground and
attempts to choke him nathan overpowers
her
standing over her ava hatefully looks at
him nathan brings the weight down to hit
ava
she uses her arm to block the hit
breaking her arm off
nathan starts to drag ava back to her
room but kyoko stabs him in the back
he turns around and strikes kyoko in her
face kyoko's jaw breaks revealing her
robotic face
as kyoko falls to the ground ava pulls
the knife from nathan's back and
proceeds to stab nathan in the stomach
nathan turns away from ava wide-eyed and
walks away
he doesn't walk far when he falls to the
ground and lies against the wall
ava walks and sits down next to him she
reaches over and takes his key card away
from him as he whispers her name ava
with his last breath ava goes back to
caleb and asks him to stay in nathan's
room while she wanders off
she finds the same closets that caleb
had found filled with the other robot
bodies
ava takes the arm from the robot to
repair herself
she starts to remove the synthetic skin
from the robot to put on her body
once she's finished she has the body of
a female human just as kyoko had
she dresses herself and walks out of the
room caleb is still locked in the room
he calls for her but she does not look
his way she looks down the hallway where
kyoko and nathan's bodies lie
ava turns to the door leading out of the
hallway and uses the key card to get out
she leaves the estate and walks outside
for the first time
as she is taking everything in caleb is
frantically trying to get out of the
room
but with no luck ava finds her way to
the helicopter and leaves behind the
world she once knew
in the end caleb is left behind in the
room and ava finds her way to the city
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this
thanks for watching